---
layout: post
title:  "All and everyone"
---



Max Richter’s Voices was released this week. It’s a beautiful album, and what it’s for is beautiful. Still, there will be people who disagree with me, who don’t like his music, who don’t like that it involves a lot of spoken word. 

Who don’t like the words that are being spoken. 

Those words are essentially a list, and one deliberately written in very plain, very simple language. It’s not florid, it doesn’t rhyme. It’s not particularly expressive, or even especially pretty. Just selected passages from one long inventory: a catalogue of articles in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  It details clearly, cleanly, and with words that were no doubt fought over, fought for, and edited to within an inch of their life, the rights that every single human should have. 

I say should, because it’s an aspirational document, and it is still being fought over, and for. 

Why now, in 2020, the articles are still being contested feels important. The UK’s government keeps on threatening to repeal our own Human Rights Act, as if every mention of the possibility will make it more likely, and fatigue will weaken opposition in a way no solid argument could. 

What I think they fail to understand is that this whole process conjures every conceivable emotion to boil my blood. I’m sad that there should even be an argument. I’m furious that there are people who actively oppose these rights. I feel joy that there are those who ceaselessly, relentlessly, fight for them. To constantly expand their reach, to breathe them into life everywhere there’s a single human footfall.

That fight feels like the defining feature of the last seventy years. And I hope, I hope desperately, that it will continue to be the defining feature for the next seventy years, or until that fight is won. We have come so far, and we still have so far to go. 

Freedom from violence and freedom from discrimination are cornerstones of the declaration, and yet the country most visibly obsessed with freedom is struggling right now to realise those principles unilaterally. Octavia Butler’s mid 90s book, Parable of the Sower, feels oddly timely, and warns of an America that stumbles back into a nation defined by slavery. Freedom from which is also key to the declaration. The US and the UK are both caught, in this present moment, in an examination of the history of enslavement, and just how free of it we are, or are not.  After decades, the rallying cry of “No Justice, No Peace” still rings out, and still has relevant meaning. Justice, the subject of not one, but several of the articles. Peace, the declaration’s fundamental drive.

Why anyone in their right mind would oppose these things is beyond me. Why justice, and liberty, and life, should be items of contention, and why there are those who would readily apply them to their own demographic, but not others, escapes me. If there is evidence of evil in the world, it is this. Not the big blows to nation, or race, or person, but the absences of empathy that allow them to happen continually. 

There is precious little freedom in the world right now (of movement, at least), when everyone is caught mid pandemic. But the freedoms and rights, of life, of expression, for family and home are not just things one receives, but things one is responsible for. Accepting the declaration is not simply a hand outstretched in receipt of a gift. It is a hand stretched outward, and downward.  Yes, you are free to travel, but yes, you are responsible for maintaining your nana’s right to life. Your own, your neighbour’s, mine. 

Maybe this is why there is still so much contention around the rights.  They give, but they ask. And not all are ready to provide. This too, defines parts of our age. Money without meaningful charity. Power without obligation, or even authority. A hand that grasps for what it can take, and refuses to reach for what it can lift or protect beyond itself.

It feels childish. It feels adolescent. It feels like a populace, and worse, leaders, that do not understand what it means to be an adult.  Not in its outbursts and passions, but for its lack of either in the face of an unequal world. 

I do not want a parent, an aunt, a brother, who calmly sees my freedoms as an assault on theirs, I want a family that will fight tooth and claw to lift me from under a boot, from out of a boat, from behind bars, to a place of safety and dignity. A family secure that it has the right to expect the same for and from anyone, without distinction.

A lack of security, that fear, is essentially why the Universal Declaration remains unrealised across the world. We are caught in a loop where the thing the declaration would provide, is the thing it needs to fully exist. And worse, lack of security is essentially a commodity that fuels and funds much of the modern age. This struggle is one of inches. Of marginally safer havens carved out in a tempestuous world. 

This, as much as any other reason, is why an internationally recognised document that outlines the terms for an eventual, distant, but achievable, adult, responsible and secure world, is as beautiful as Kiki Layne’s voice, as the choir that backs her through Richter’s album. As the other voices that speak, regardless of language. As the strings that swell and make my hands shake as I write. As beautiful as a dream of better times to come. Of change. Of a future that is being achieved by inches.

This is the thing that Voices is for. It makes it evident how beautiful even the idea of universal human rights can be. It transmits some part of how I feel about them in tone and metre and time. The words are essential, but what is easily overlooked when they lie static on a page is what they mean, and how they resonate inside a chest, inside a heart. 

Poetry is best when spoken aloud.

The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, no less so. 

